# Pymaeceuticals

Data generated by Mockaroo, LLC (2022), a realistic data generator.

This is a mock drug trial for a new pharmaceutical company that specializes in anti-cancer medications. Recently, it began screening for potential treatments for squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), a commonly occurring form of skin cancer. 

In this scenario, I acted as a senior data analyst that has been given access to the complete data from their most recent animal study. In this mock study, 249 mice who were identified with SCC tumors received treatment with a range of drug regimens. Over the course of 45 days, tumor development was observed and measured. The purpose of this mock study was to compare the performance of Pymaceuticals’ drug of interest, Capomulin, against the other treatment regimens.

I was responsible for generating all of the tables and figures needed for the technical report of the clinical study and a top-level summary of the study results.

## Instructions
I broke down the data into the following tasks:
* Preparing the data.
* Generating summary statistics.
* Creating bar charts and pie charts.
* Calculating quartiles, find outliers, and create a box plot.
* Creating a line plot and a scatter plot.
* Calculating correlation and regression.
* Final analysis.

Below are the folling actions that I took for each task.

### Preparing the Data
* Run the provided package dependency and data imports, and then merge the mouse_metadata and study_results DataFrames into a single DataFrame.
* Display the number of unique mice IDs in the data, and then check for any mouse ID with duplicate time points. Display the data associated with that mouse ID, and then create a new DataFrame where this data is removed. Use this cleaned DataFrame for the remaining steps.
* Display the updated number of unique mice IDs.

### Generating Summary Statistics
* Creating two summary statistics by:
  * Using the groupby method to generate the mean, median, variance, standard deviation, and SEM of the tumor volume for each drug regimen. This should result in five unique Series objects. Combine these objects into a single summary statistics DataFrame.
  * Using the agg method to produce the same summary statistics table by using a single line of code.

### Creating Bar Charts and Pie Charts
* Generate two bar charts. Both charts should be identical and show the total number of time points for all mice tested for each drug regimen throughout the study.
  * Create the first bar chart with the Pandas DataFrame.plot() method.
  * Create the second bar chart with Matplotlib's pyplot methods.
* Generate two pie charts. Both charts should be identical and show the distribution of female versus male mice in the study.
  * Create the first pie chart with the Pandas DataFrame.plot() method.
  * Create the second pie chart with Matplotlib's pyplot methods.

### Calculating Quartiles, Find Outliers, and Create a Box Plot
* Calculate the final tumor volume of each mouse across four of the most promising treatment regimens: Capomulin, Ramicane, Infubinol, and Ceftamin. Then, calculate the quartiles and IQR, and determine if there are any potential outliers across all four treatment regimens. Use the following substeps:
* Create a grouped DataFrame that shows the last (greatest) time point for each mouse. Merge this grouped DataFrame with the original cleaned DataFrame.
* Create a list that holds the treatment names as well as a second, empty list to hold the tumor volume data.
* Loop through each drug in the treatment list, locating the rows in the merged DataFrame that correspond to each treatment. Append the resulting final tumor volumes for each drug to the empty list.
* Determine outliers by using the upper and lower bounds, and then print the results.
* Using Matplotlib, generate a box plot of the final tumor volume for all four treatment regimens. Highlight any potential outliers in the plot by changing their color and style.
* Create a Line Plot and a Scatter Plot
* Select a mouse that was treated with Capomulin, and generate a line plot of tumor volume versus time point for that mouse.
* Generate a scatter plot of tumor volume versus mouse weight for the Capomulin treatment regimen.

### Calculating Correlation and Regression
* Calculate the correlation coefficient and linear regression model between mouse weight and average tumor volume for the Capomulin treatment.
* Plot the linear regression model on top of the previous scatter plot.
